With the newer browsers we got a lot more access to different API.
So some of these API that are coming up in this section may not work in some of the older browsers they
do work in Chrome and they work within most of the mobile browsers.
So in this lesson we're going to be looking at file praetor.
So what this does is this gives you the ability to upload files into javascript.
So let's show you how to set this up so first of all we need an input and the input type is going to
be file.
So we're going to be uploading a file and also let's do multiple.
So we'll have ability to upload multiple files and we're going to do on onchange event handler.
So whenever this changes then we're going to up files and that's going to be the event handler that
we're going to use and within the argument let's pass over this files object so we're passing over we're
using this object that we looked at earlier and we're passing over all of that file information on the
upload.
And also I'm going to add in one more div here.
And within the div..
So this is basically going to be whatever content we want to output.
And we want to display when the files get uploaded.
So now let's build our function in javascript and the whole thing with the web API is in each tim L5
is connecting javascript to our h HTML and making added additional functionality into the code and into
the web pages.
So a lot to set up some variables and we're going to do what we've done before where we're doing document
get element by id and we're going to grab the one that's the element with the name message.
And also let's do a quick check just to make sure so as I mentioned before that not all of the browsers
are going to support this.
So I want to do a quick check on the window and the function that we're checking is file reader.
And as we can see here this allows us to file reader lets us read object's contents of files into our
javascript and then make use of them.
So not all the browsers are going to be able to accept this.
So we're going to check and make sure that it is available.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and we've already added in the condition to check if
file reader is available.
So what I want you to do is output within the message area.
If file reader is available just say file reader is available and if it's not available then output
within the message Div. that file reader is not available.
So go ahead and pause the video and add in those updates and changes so you had an opportunity to try
that out.
And this part was what we've done before within message.
So we saw that there's a number of ways.
And basically this was just plain conditional statement.
When we do window we're looking into the window object.
And what we're looking for is the file reader function that's available within the window object.
So if it is available and we have access to it then we're going to output a message that file reader
is available and if it's not available so this was the second part was the condition statement that
if it's not available so file reader and we'll just say not available.
So just update this and put a big upper case there that it's not available.
So let's try this out.
Let's go into our code and save the file and let's refresh and we see file reader is available.
And as mentioned I am using Chrome and chrome for the most part.
Most of these brand new API is aged him L5.
They're all going to work within chrome and they're also going to work across a lot of the mobile browsers
and some of the older browsers like IEEE IEEE eight IEEE nine will have trouble with this.
So before you try to use it just make sure that it is compatible with the browsers that your users are
typically using.
So the next thing that we need to do is I want to add in this function.
So we did create that listener for up files.
So let's create a function now and this function is the one that is going to get called with the event
handler and we're going to just pass over some file information so we can call it files because we're
passing over all that file information and because we're allowing the ability to add multiple files
so we can loop through all the different files that are being received.
So let's do a quick loop so variable x and this is the same function that we've done before.
So we're going to loop while X is less than the length of files because this is going to be represented
as an array and then we need to increment X in order to break out of our array.
So next to that we need to do is we need to pick up the file information.
And for now I'm going to just Konsole a log out that file information so a console log out what we're
picking up here.
So as we loop through them we can console log at all the different files that are available or maybe
what we can do is we'll just add it into our message because we did set that up so we can just add it
in to message there.
And in so starting in a library so it's more readable.
So there we go.
So now whenever we select some files we should see that output being put within our age home page.
So let's try that out.
And before we go there is a few errors here.
So just to make sure that we do need to output because we're going to get return back as an object so
files get returned back as an object.
So they're going to contain a length and each one of the files is actually gonna have a name and last
updated.
So there's some information that gets returned back for each one of the files.
So now we're ready to test it out.
Let's go ahead and grab.
So we grab two different files and we loop through all the different file names.
So the next thing that we want to do is we want to read this information into our h t m l.
So now that we're able.
We know that we're actually able to grab that file information we need to set up some we need to set
up our reader.
So basically this is going to be the F reader.
So file reader and we're going to create a brand new object and the brand new object that we're creating
is going to be a file reader object and need to do the round in brackets here.
And every time that we pick up a new file our f reader can then output that information so we can actually
what we can do is we can console log that.
So it can take a closer look at actually what's happening here with the reader.
And that afterwards I'll show you how you can output it into your aged him.
So let's go ahead and try that out.
So see that and go and refresh the page.
And we're going to grab those same two files and you can also do this with one file as well.
And we're just going to open up the console.
And so basically this is what we see within the console.
So we get all of that file information.
So for each one we have a number of different states we've got a ready state.
We've got on progress on load on load and on a board.
So we've got all of this information and we can use these.
So these are objects that are contained within the file reader object and we can check to make sure
that when it loads that we can do something and so on we can also do something if there is an error.
So this is basically giving us more options as to what we can do with the F reader object.
So this is that new one that we've just created.
So let's create a few scenarios here.
So whenever we finish loading.
So whenever we do f reader on let's just do a function so do an anonymous function.
So we're passing over the event information so much because we saw earlier with event handlers where
we can get event information and we can console log it or we can pick up that information and that information
is going to be saved.
The same thing as the listener where we can do the event target and we can just return back the result.
And I'm actually going to console a lot.
I'm going to get rid of this one here because we don't need to take a look at that anymore.
And I'm also going to just log out just the plain just the plain event target so that we can take a
closer look at that object with the result as well.
So now let's try this again.
So let's open this up and refreshed grab both of those files and open up our console and we can see
within the console.
And there's one other thing that we need to add in still to make it function.
So this is the last part of the everyday object and we need to read as so got a few options and we're
going to read it as a text.
So we're going to read whatever content of those files so when he Tulsa's specify the file that we want
to read and the file is Files X. So this is the object that we actually want to read.
So this again this is being submitted by the input here and then we're able to read that.
So let's go back and refresh the page and I'll show you what's going to show up within the console.
So each one of those files they just have some basic text and you can actually see the text being output
here.
So this is being output in the result.
So this is ultimately what we want to output.
So we're going to output both of those values.
The result is the contents of the file and we're going to output that information into our HVM mail.
And the way that we can do that is within the on load.
So instead of having this one here let's make a quick update and we're pulling back that target result
value and we can also add that up here as well.
So let's let's let's just added an up here
and I get to swap these around so that we have the contents of the file underneath the name of the file
so put the name of the file first and then next will have the contents of the file.
So let's check it out.
So let's open this up and refreshed and grab those two files.
And as you can see those files.
They just simply contain that text information.
So it's good to scrub both of them again.
And there's one other thing that we need to do actually before we test it.
So we need to store this file's name value outside of the onload function.
So let's bring that over here and we'll just call it file name so that we can actually put it in nice
and neatly.
Or we also have the option to pull that out and we could have done that before we did the onload.
So that way we could if we had any errors or any issues we could also see the file name and then we
could see what is attached to it.
So let's go ahead and try this out and let's go ahead and we're going to open both of those test files
and now we see we've got file reader is available so that's come in from up here.
Next we're getting the file name so we're picking that up here under file name and then next we're getting
the contents of the file and this file simply says first file javascript course and then the second
one says second file javascript course and I can open up the files here so this is the first one and
I can just do something like updated.
And then also the second one I'll do second and uppercase.
So now if I go back into the application and I select both of those files refresh an application we
see that now we get that updated content.
And if I update it again and I want to pull back 110 so I can get updated content of that one I can
get updated content to that one.
So it is actually pulling that content from the files.
So what I want you to do now is create your own version of this.
Create some basic text files and create them on your computer.
So locally on your system and then open up create a file reader object and create an input that allows
you to select files off of your computer and then output the results and the contents of those files
within your aged him l page.
So go ahead and try that.
And the next lesson we're going to be looking at even more you can do with him L5 and the javascript
API.